---
layout: post
title: Pill
---
Pill has been my first successful attempt at developing a game. The mechanics of it are simplistic, if not brain dead. The objective of this game is to control the "character" and eat all the pills which appear randomly throughout the screen.

Much time was spent in researching and learning the various parts that made Pill. Understanding the interactions between Surfaces, Rectangles, Sprites, Fonts, etc was challenging, but once I understood the concept, it was not very difficult to put 1+1 together.

Many parts of the code in Pill are very similar to the example code in Aliens, which is included in Pygame. I even borrowed the load_image() function. Since I wasn't sure on how to structure my game, I based it off Aliens for the class structure and how it processed the game logic. However, I did not understand why in Aliens, the Sprite sub-classes had self.containers as part of the structure.

After finishing the barebones of the game, I begin adding features, such as the scoreboard and the changing background color. Some other features I wanted to implement were: bounding all objects within the screen, add sound, and having animations every time the "character" ate a pill. There is also a display bug in which the "character" sprite erases the scoreboard as it passes through.

Making Pill was a fun experience. This first attempt has been greatly successful despite all the bugs and lack of interesting features. I do want to improve on it over time as ideas come and I learn how to implement more complex techniques.